Great job in making possibly the most useful magazine I have ever read! I'm only 14 years old and your mag has inspired me to start programming, Thanks!
J Forster


Firstly, great job to you all for the 2012 issues. I am one of your 600+ backers with the Kickstarter to get a physical copy of them. I was wondering if you had considered doing a similar 2013 type of fund raiser - or offering a subscription service through your themagpi website?

T Giles

Congratulations on the magazine! As an RPi user of a certain “Vintage” it’s nice to “Tinker” with a cheap, relatively simple, relatively powerful, open source piece of hardware again!

P Welsh


All,

Your publication is outstanding! The variety of well composed articles each MagPi issue contains are incredibly helpful!!  Please keep up the good work!!!! 

T Gomez

Dear Magpi
I am one who can remember the first home computer magazines and how important they were in both nurturing our programming skills while also acting as an essential catalyst to the creative enthusiasm  coming through schools.
But there were some things you should not repeat. I can remember is how we used to type in line after line of Sinclair Basic into a ZX81 only for ‘Ram Pack Wobble’ to leave us having to start all over again.  Then there was the computer listing in a magazine that had been put through full text auto correction and justification.  It may have read better English and looked better  but boy was it an experience  having to turn it back into Sinclair Basic.  But there was another I remember that really should be in a museum somewhere.  Basically, Pop and HiFi magazines in the 80s went through a phase of putting  very thin plastic 45 RPM records  with the magazines.  So what does a computing magazine do, starts issuing  45 RPM audio records with the computer programs on them and  we are trying to use a record turntable to play the programs in through the computer cassette input jack.  Thankfully by the time the BBC B magazines started, they had gone back to audio cassettes.
But, computer magazines like the Magpi really are essential ingredient in sparking young programmers off to achieve greater things.
So keep up the good words. 
22 over 7


D Lockwood


Thank you for this amazing magazine .

O Bellés 


I am glad you are making a physical copy of these. I have yet to find a device I want to read soft copies on so this makes you even more awesome. You will go nicely on the shelf next to my physical copies of Linux Format.

Yakko TDI


As someone who cut hit computing teeth on a Sinclair MK14, I think the Pi is amazing.
 I have read most issues of MagPi at least twice and was very impressed but the breadth and depth of the articles you have published; further as a parent I was very impressed by the fact that most of the articles published were not game related.
 Personally I am into CNC and robotics, and the first job for my Pi is to talk CAN to my Land Rover Defender, and hoping to add Sat-Nav shortly :-)
 Once the project is finished I will try to submit it as an article; but me write ??? Suppose I can try :-)
 Please keep up the good work guys!

J Ainhirn-Williams



